Thank you so much. It's a real honor to
speak to all of you today.
I'll have a provocative title to my
talk.
I've called it
genomics in the post genome era.
And I have a very particular meaning
when I talk about this.
I
grew up in the I would say the genomics
era, but I miss I missed it.
I haven't sequenced many genomes.
I my laboratory doesn't do a lot of
sequencing.
But what we do is use the information
that's been made available
by
genomics
and try to convert that into human
therapies. So we sit on the shoulders of
giants essentially. But we've never
we don't actively explore.
There was a time
especially in oncology cancer, which is
the discipline that I that I practice.
There was a time where there was a there
was a kind of sobering moment in
oncology when the human genome was
sequenced and following that cancer
genomes began to be sequenced.
The the
the pre-sobering moment, the hype was
that the sequencing of these genomes
would reveal immediately would reveal a
whole bunch of therapies for cancers.
And in fact revealed the mechanisms by
which cancers proliferated, grew, and
metastasized.
And then came the disappointment, which
was that they that the that the genome
didn't reveal
a lot of information. It revealed some
information, but not a lot of
information especially in the
therapeutic front.
And that disappointment continues today
to some extent. So for instance, when I
the the disease that I treat
mostly, lymphomas, leukemias, especially
acute myelogenous leukemia,
um
you know, the genes that are involved in
uh
the mutated genes found in AML are genes
that have to do with
uh methylation,
RNA splicing, things that you wouldn't
imagine that you wouldn't imagine at the
first glance would immediately tell you
why these genes are involved in
in that particular kind of blood cancer.
And yet they are. We know clearly they
are. And in fact, it's an ongoing
investigation in my lab and other
laboratories to figure out how
these genes that seem to be unrelated at
the first glance, uh you know, they're
not for instance genes that regulate the
cell cycle. They're not genes that
regulate at the first glance, um
you know, the typical proliferative
capacities of a cell. But somehow or the
other, there's a message that we're
missing
um in cellular biology um that that was
not solved.
Um so, there was a disappointment that
came with that.
But now we're realizing that we can we
as I said in this what I would call the
post-genome era, we're finding new ways
to treat and think about cancer in
particular, which I think are are
profound and interesting, and they all
rely on the information released by
um by the by the sequencing of genomes.
So, I'll focus on that. I'll focus on
physiology and focus on cancer
therapeutics.
Uh
and um
So, I I suppose that the um
the
the the central theme of my talk is
this, which is that um
the news of of of my death has been
vastly exaggerated. Uh sometimes
attributed to Twain. The the news of the
of the death of the genome has been
vastly exaggerated. This disappointment
um is actually disproportionate to the
actual things that we're doing
now with the genetic and genomic
information that we have from cancer.
So, I have four stories that I'll tell
you. My lab works on many other pieces
which I won't talk about today, splicing
among other things. I talked to Phil
about it just now.
But let me start with this
this one story which I think I like to
tell stories. So,
let me start with this one story. So,
um
this is about immune therapy for blood
cancers. And by the way, this data is
being revealed publicly right now. So,
um
as in like this minute. Um
And this is not a joke. Um
So, I'll tell you exactly what. So, but
the conception of this of this project
goes back many many years. This is a
house that my family goes to in Oaxaca
in the winter. Um
It's built um on the water as you see. I
call it the most unsafe house on the
universe in the universe because that is
a pool. Um it's 50 ft above the cliff
and it has no railings. You can only
make this uh it's a very important house
architecturally. Um it belongs to an
artist Gabriel Orozco, a great close
friend.
Um and it is actually built after uh uh
the model is after an Indian
observatory. Um so, that pool that you
see on top which is an inverted globe
in India
um was the inverted globe of the cosmos.
It was used in the 15th and 16th century
to have an inverted shape of the cosmos
so that you can figure out where the
stars and the horizon was moving because
the horizon is of course an upside down
globe as well.
Um
But the idea so, um
I was there about maybe six winters ago,
four winters ago, five winters ago um
sitting at this house and thinking about
inversions. And I was making this
drawing. Uh I still have this. This
actually happens to be the logo of
one of the companies that I've started.
I still have this. I was making these
inverted drawings so you can make so
this was the I was drawing seabirds. Um,
and you can make a an upside down
drawing in which you take a
a stencil almost and you can spray paint
with black paint on on the white stencil
and you all of a sudden get a
bizarre and peculiar inverted drawing.
Um,
but I was also thinking about how we
might be able to treat and cure a a very
lethal cancer
which is really whose needle has not
moved in the last
50, 60 odd years and that's acute
myeloid leukemia.
Especially relapsed refractory acute
myeloid leukemia where the mortality
rate rivals any of the worst cancers
that you can imagine including
pancreatic and other forms of of
extraordinarily lethal solid tumors.
The problem
is that um, hematopoietic stem cells and
progenitor cells, the cells that give
rise to
the myeloid cells in our body, the
lymphoid cells in our body, but
importantly the myeloid cells in our
body, neutrophils, macrophages, red
blood cells, platelets, etc., etc.
And AML cells share common antigens and
to my mind
until now for AML and not for other
diseases
we have never found a unique tumor
antigen that we can target. Um, I'll
talk about why that's different from
another disease that I work on, ALL,
acute lymphoblastic leukemia. AML, we
haven't had a
a unique tumor antigen. Every time we've
targeted anything in a acute myelogenous
leukemia cell, it's turned out to have
its counterpart in some myeloid cell.
And therefore you get dose limiting
toxicities constantly and you get a you
reach a ceiling, you reach a limit and
then you can't go any further because
the more you treat the patient, the more
patient they they they the more
toxicities you accumulate.
Um and so that ceiling is almost a
natural ceiling. It's been true for
virtually every drug that's been tested,
every small molecule, every targeted
therapy that's been tested in this
space. And so we've in in some ways
we've we've really not moved the needle
um for this uh particular cancer.
Um so the solution to this problem,
again, going back to this theme of
thinking upside down, upside down
universes, upside down models, upside
down uh
uh pictures, was to ask the question,
what if we um
I'm trying to advance this cursor.
Um what if we imagined that again, let's
imagine this is again these drawings are
these actually original drawings from
that um
session that I had 6 years ago or 7
years ago. Um what if you imagine the
cell uh where you had a normal cell and
a cancer cell and they happen to share
the same antigen. Now for decades, we've
been monomaniacally focused on the
cancer cell, trying to do something to
the cancer cell, trying to kill it,
trying to change it, trying to do uh
make manipulations of the cancer cell.
But the inversion of that and so he in
this case I've put up an antigen, this
case it's CD33.
I'll talk about that in a second. Um
it the the problem is that you can
target CD33. There are many many
different antibodies, CAR-T cells, etc.
that target CD33. The problem is that
they kill the cancer cell, but they also
kill normal myeloid cells. And then
you're stuck, like I said before.
But the inversion is the following,
which is that instead of targeting the
normal cell, by that time, by 6 years
ago, we had figured out tools by which
we could eliminate the antigen on the
normal cells.
And now all of a sudden, you've
bioengineered a unique tumor antigen
because you have
these patients will often receive
transplants, you can manipulate the
donor graft.
And I'll show you a picture of that in a
second. You essentially eliminate the
the antigen from the normal cells,
thereby essentially allowing this
process to happen, which is that if you
Again, this cursor is working.
If you now target the
Now you because you've engineered a
unique
antigen, you can use CAR-T cells, you
can use an antibody directed therapy to
now kill the cancer cells because they
are still possess the antigen, whereas
you've made the normal cells resistant
to the antigen. So, in other words,
you're using the tumor antigen to stand
out like a sore thumb.
What does that mean in real life? Well,
so this is a patient on the on the right
side is the
is a donor,
and the left side is a patient or
depending on which side you're looking
at, patient and donor.
So, this is the patient has acute
myelogenous leukemia
pointed by the arrow,
and they're going to receive a donor
graft. This is a standard they're
receiving standard hematopoietic stem
cell transplantation. But now what we do
is So, this is these are the stem
progenitor cells from the donor, and
they're matched to the patient.
What we're going to do is we're going to
use CRISPR to delete out
CD33. So, now you get a
CRISPR-less CRISPR CD33-less
hematopoietic stem progenitor cell.
Those lines indicate that you cannot be
attacked by a CAR-T cell. These are all
in principle.
I'll start showing you data in a second.
You can't attack it with a CAR-T cell or
an antibody
toxin. So, it's immune to the CAR-T cell
and the antibody toxin.
And then
um now you give the antibody toxin.
That's the AML cell, the cancer cell,
which is now sensitive to the antibody
toxin. And in fact, you can do one more
thing, which is you can also take a T
cell, a CAR-T cell from the donor.
Remember, the
uh
the patient has now become
hematopoietically reconstituted with the
donor cells. So, you can take a CAR-T
cell from the donor. Actually, comes out
from the same um
uh
leukapheresis as you as you do.
Um and now you can attack the the cancer
cell. Is that concept clear to people?
Okay.
So, um we uh published a paper on this,
and we patented this technology.
Um
um
There are several groups that also did
it, but we happened to do it. This is
how science works. Uh we happened to do
it 2 weeks before all the other patents
were filed. Um it made a big difference
in my life. Um
But, um this is the This is the first
experiment that we did in which we put
in AML and a leukemic cell line into a
mouse. We treated either with um
And again, we deleted the um CD33. This
is a mouse experiment. Uh this is an uh
immunocompromised mouse, a NOD-SCID
gamma mouse. We put in human leukemia.
Uh we've done this experiment with
primary human leukemias. We've done this
with cell lines. We've done this at
various combinations. Talk about some of
that. And then, you treat with a uh
combine either the antibody toxin, which
is called Mylotarg,
gemtuzumab ozogamicin. That's why it's
called GO in these slides. Um or the
CAR-T or a combination.
Um And what happens is that um as you
can imagine, uh if you don't do
anything, uh the leukemia grows, the
mice die.
But, if you uh put in your um
Sorry, I'm going to go back. But, if you
put in your um if you put in your either
the uh antibody toxin or the CAR-T
cells, the mice essentially are cured.
And we've done this experiment in
various combinations.
Again, I'll point out on the right side
of the slide,
you see the the dead mice. Those are the
mice in which
obviously the leukemia grew and took
over the bone marrow. On the right side
of the slide, you see either the
combination of either the CAR-T or the
CAR-T plus um gemtuzumab ozogamicin
or GO.
What's interesting about it is that when
you use CAR-Ts and uniquely when you use
CAR-Ts,
you get a dip in the hematopoietic
reconstitution, which worried me
enormously initially.
But then you get a rise again. And we
still haven't quite figured out what
that's because of. We think it's because
of intramedullary, so in the bone
marrow, the lysis of tumor cells
creating a an inflammatory
microenvironment, which doesn't allow
the hematopoietic engraftment to happen
as quickly as just treating with an
antibody toxin. We're not sure about
that yet. That's something that we're
exploring. It's very It'll become very
important in a second. And this of
course is the picture of the animals
that were cured with with this
treatment.
Um so in 2018, we issued a patent.
We created a company and I'll talk about
why that's important for for for at
least for my ecosystem. I cannot do um
both the
preclinical and the clinical trials at
the same time. And that's
extraordinarily important. I'll come
back to this idea that there's an
ecosystem that's necessary to move a
human medicine from the laboratory to
becoming a human medicine. And that
ecosystem is extraordinarily important.
And that ecosystem must involve
responsible, thoughtful
biotech and pharmaceutical companies.
And I'm using the word responsible and
thoughtful and purposefully because if
they're irresponsible and not
thoughtful, it creates all sorts of
problems. But if they are responsible
and thoughtful, it creates the right
ecosystem for the for for the movement
of a medicine into a company. We filed
multiple
patents following that IPs.
We in-licensed the CAR-T 33,
the 33 CD33 CAR-T from the National
Cancer Institute.
We filed now I think six INDs, but these
were the first.
And the first in human studies. This is
actually an old slide. I will actually I
just got permission to release the first
human data from this study as of this
morning. So.
So we created a company called Vor,
which is just down the road, created GMP
facility which manufactures these
manipulated hematopoietic stem cells.
You can imagine that there's a long
pipeline. You can do many things with
this
kind of platform. I won't talk about all
of them. We can talk about them at the
Q&A session.
And this is the study. I won't go
through all the details of the study,
but basically it looks like the mouse
study. You engraft with
the manipulated hematopoietic stem
cells. And please don't go through all
the
minutia of this slide. You engraft the
CD33 manipulated hematopoietic stem
cells.
And then you um
obviously if there's residual leukemia
left over manipulated, it will still
express the antigen.
And the we had the big advantage that we
have not a great drug, but a but a good
enough drug, which is Mylotarg, which is
CD33 conjugated to a toxin. Which had
now been brought back from
from the reservoir of the dead
because it had
accumulated so many toxicities as you
can imagine if you give it to
unmanipulated cells, your neutrophil
counts and your blood counts collapse.
And so there had never been a successful
drug, but because of some patient
advocacy, they'd been brought back. And
that turned out to be very important
because it's very difficult, we'll come
to this as a
question and a problem. It's very
difficult to combine two new drugs into
the same trial. It's very difficult to
combine a new antibody or a new CAR-T
and a new manipulation of a stem cell
into the same trial because the FDA will
want them to be separated out so that
you don't have confounding effects. By
chance, by really by luck and
circumstance, we all had an we had a
drug. It wasn't the best drug in the
world, but it was a drug.
So we could use just the manipulated
stem cells as a drug product. And then
add the antibody toxin. Am I being
totally clear by now or have have I lost
people? Okay?
So this is
fresh off the press.
Um the first patient. Um
so this patient has extraordinarily
nasty um
uh AML. Uh
I can't even begin to tell you how
terrible it is. You can look at the
karyotype. It doesn't even look like
doesn't even resemble a normal cell. Um
it's got um
uh
deletions, uh translocations,
extraordinarily
uh nasty. It's a P53 mutated AML. So the
prognosis of these patients is
very very uh poor. Uh DNMT3A is a uh
gene involved in methylation. KDM 6A is
another negative prognostic feature for
So these patients usually have a life
lifespan of post-transplant uh relapse
of nearly 90%
um and a and a lifespan uh a
post-transplant lifespan of uh about 6
months or 4 months um because they will
relapse. So um again, I don't want you
to focus on what happened what what we
did what the patient went through, but
they went through standard induction
therapy, consolidation therapy, which is
the standard this is going on for 20
years or old therapy.
As expected, relapsed. Then they got
what's called salvage
a venetoclax, which is not a great drug,
but at least keeps them
in a salvage mode.
And then they had 1.8% MRD positive
positivity. So even after all of this,
they were minimal residual disease
positive. That's MRD at 1.8%. So in
other words, their chance of of dying
without a hematopoietic stem cell
transplantation was 100% because there's
no nothing that will keep this MRD at
1.8%. They'll climb and climb and climb
and they will die. So they then got a 10
out of 10 match. This patient happened
to have a match.
Very good match.
Then they got
standard conditioning with busulfan and
fludarabine. And then they got this
T-Rex cell infusion. We haven't got the
name of the drug product yet, but that
is the CD33 deleted cells.
That's the dose.
The gene editing efficiency that we
allowed for the release was greater than
50%. This person had 88%. So 90% of
their stem cells were edited.
And of course, this is a purified CD34
product. Any questions so far?
Everyone's following me, okay? So this
is the early data
from this patient. So
the immediate engraftment
would have been at day 11.
In fact, this patient engrafted with the
CD33 negative cells at day, sorry, day
12. So really no difference. That was
the last dose of GCSF.
And the important data is is what you
see right here, which is that rather
than their neutrophils and their
platelets and their uh cells collapsing,
which it would do
um as we gave them um uh their their
platelets started to recover.
And then this is what happened. Um so
their donor chimerism was nearly 100%.
Their CD33 negative cells was at day 60
was 96 94 93%, but the most important
thing is that um
they they have now gotten three doses of
the antibody toxin. Um and their uh
uh stem cell their recovery has
continued absolutely on the normal
trajectory. So in other words, they have
they have been completely immune they
have become completely immune to the
uh uh
uh to the toxin.
So this is the natural this is the ODAC
committee natural. So they got 0.5 mg
per kg uh uh
m squared uh of um Mylotarg. Um uh at
that and now they're moving on to the
next dose escalation, which will be 1
mg. At that dose you should expect to
see 100% saturation of the uh receptors,
um but this is in a patient who's
replete. This patient, remember, doesn't
have any sink. Uh they they their only
sink uh for this toxin is their uh is
their cancer cells.
Um so um
uh normally you would expect that uh in
eight out of nine patients within 14
days there would have been a drop in
their uh neutrophil counts, uh but this
patient now actually has in fact
increased their neutrophil counts. At
day 20 their ANC has normalized to 3.25,
platelets now at 94, um and most most
importantly uh no hepatotoxic uh events.
Um
so um
tiny tiny tiny study.
Uh we're recruiting six more patients
this week.
Um and the FDA has asked us to move them
by 2 weeks, 2 weeks, and 2 weeks. So, by
December we'll have a a full cohort data
set. Um, but we're obviously very
excited about this because uh it
um, as I said, proves uh an incredibly
important principle um in um in this in
this platform. And there many other
potential things that can be done with
this platform. Well, the second thing
that can be done with this platform is
that um you know, often cancer cells um
are um
you need uh dual therapy. So, you need
two targets. Um, and in fact there are
two other targets that are um
that are present. Uh
CD uh
gene called CLEC12A uh mutated in AML,
uh another gene called CD123. The reason
we picked these genes, by the way, is
that we have the the the so-called Nomad
database. The Nomad database is a very
important database. It's a database of
all natural deletions that are found in
the human population.
And just by chance, it turns out that
there are many people who have naturally
deleted CD33, arguing that you don't
require CD33 for normal function. So,
that's one of our major screens that we
use to to pick out these genes. They
have to be present in the leukemia and
in the normal stem cells. And it's much
much more reassuring to us and to the
FDA if they are naturally deleted in
some population of humans. CD33 happens
to be one gene. There are many other
such genes. What, five or six others? I
can't tell you all of them, but I can
tell you some of them.
Um, so we've done double deletions as
well. So, we've done a dual deletion.
And again, the idea would be to equally
delete two genes now from the
hematopoietic stem cell product. In this
case, we've done it with CLL1 or CLEC12A
and CD33. It's uh very efficient. Um, so
you get almost uh 90 95% of of deletion.
And we've in the laboratory treated,
again with the same principle treated
now with dual CD33 and CLL1 antibodies.
We have a proprietary created a
proprietary antibody against CLL1,
attached it with a toxin, and again you
get the same results. You get
uh in the mouse at least you get full
engraftment with every cell type. The
leukemia still expresses CLL1, expresses
CD33, and when you treat you can cure
the animals.
Um
the problem with dual targeting as you
know is that it has the risk runs the
risk of translocations.
So the FDA told us wait a second, you
can't do that. You can't do a double
targeting. We've argued back with them
saying that this is a totally lethal
disease and this argument continues.
As I said, some of this early data from
patient one will help this argument, but
we appreciate and understand that. So
we've turned to doing two things which
are interesting.
Um
uh both of which I'll go through very
quickly because I want to get to the
other parts of the presentation. So
one way you can do this is you can do it
sequentially. So you can do one um you
can edit one or delete one, wait until
the Cas9 is cleared, then delete the
second. Now that's a little bit of
playing with fire, although we've now
adjusted the conditions and the reason
is that the more days you keep stem
cells, human stem cells in culture,
which is how you're deleting all of this
from the donor population, the more
chance you have of the stem cell
population decreasing.
But we've managed to find what I call
the golden lock spot, so we can do
double editing. We've also done base
editing. Now base editing remember
technology that came out of Boston
involves changing bases without making a
double stranded break
in DNA. So I'll talk quickly about base
editing.
We've done
both sequential and base editing in
animal models again we have
showed the same thing that you can do a
double
edit you get equivalent engraftment no
difference between the unedited versus
edited cell that you treat them
equivalently and so and in the animal
models
again same a data positive um
I'll go through the base editing data
very very quickly because I'm short on
time but essentially you can get very
effective dual base editing here is a
example of
the double base edit
and
you get
you we've shown that you know at least
the cells remain functional using
standard assays like phagocytosis cell
cell motility challenges with E. coli
and so forth these are things that the
FDA asked us to do this is now a
hematopoietic stem cell that is lacking
both CD33 and CLL1
and if you again treat with the antibody
toxin you get
very strong at the bottom you get in the
dual edited cells you get very strong
cell killing whereas in the unedited
cells you don't get cell killing
um
there are some off-target effects
on-target of course is predominates with
CD33 um and then there's off-target
effects which I think are within
reasonable limits at least in genes that
don't seem to affect their function
as judged by
animal experiments so
I'll move on to the second piece of this
but before I do that let me just pause
for one second because this is a modular
talk so are there any questions that
have directly to do with this we'll have
a question and answer session has any
questions directly to do with this
part of of the of the talk
yes
congrats on the amazing data. Yeah.
Is there any evidence that
the enriched genetic cells Yes. in the
patients also harbor additional
mutations in the allogeneic cells? Um we
haven't tested that yet. Uh the only
thing I can tell you is we got 100%
chimerism, so it's easy to test. Um so
we will do
uh genomics
uh for once in my lifetime uh
on real patient data. Yes.
Any other questions on this first part?
Nope.
We're good? Okay. Uh so I have a a quick
question over here on the right.
Yes, sorry.
Your left. Um I'm Manolis Kellis from
MIT. So my question is about CD33.
Basically, when you're actually
targeting these cells, where in the body
does it go because CD33 is also a marker
of microglia Yeah.
in the brain?
So um important question. So that was
the two concerns about CD33. Um one
concern was that there would be toxicity
to Kupffer cells in the liver
uh which are macrophages, resident
macrophages in the liver, and microglia
in the brain. Now we know that that's
not going to be the case with uh
Mylotarg uh at least used in the off on
label use because it's been used for
decades. Um so you don't get brain
toxicity or you don't get neurotoxicity,
and you do get hepatotoxicity, but at
doses that are much much higher, tenfold
higher.
Uh so at 5 mg per m² um
and higher doses you start getting uh
hepatotoxicity. We're going to stay in
the one to two
uh range um and the highest range is
three. Um and so far we haven't seen any
hepato or neurotoxicity. Now with the
CAR-T cells, it's a different story
because those cells do traffic in the
brain. So um that study will be a
different study, and we have to be very
careful about both the Kupffer cells in
the liver and the CAR-T cells in the
brain, both of which we will be able to
assess once these patients um
live longer and longer.
Got it. Thank you very much. Thank you
for work. Okay. Um, this is a
collaboration that I did with Ron Vale.
This is also a study that's recruiting.
I'm only going to talk about clinical
studies today, but also really about the
transition from the laboratory to a
clinical study. So, this collaboration
is the idea of using a monocyte as an
effector cell. So, remember that CAR-T
cells have been used for a long time,
genetically modified T cells, CAR-T 33
in our case and other CAR-Ts. I'll talk
about those in a second, but
but the question was why don't we use
monocytes?
The problem with monocytes, as you know,
is that they're part of the innate
immune system and they don't have a
adaptive capacity, so they're not
specific for any antigen or cancer. So,
we said, "Well, what if we made them
specific for an antigen or a cancer?"
So,
just a background, myeloid cells are the
most abundant cells in solid tumors.
They have tumoricidal activity. We know
that from in vitro and in vivo
experiments, but they don't have
specificity, right? So,
the question was how can you impart
specificity to a myeloid cell? So, we
created what is called a what we call a
CAR-P, P for phagocytosis,
work done in Sargil's lab and Carl June.
I don't know if Carl is here,
but has have shown similar data as well,
but we've done work in parallel. So,
just to create an analogy between a T
cell
to in a CAR-T cell, you have let's say
CD19 and it's cognate receptor
on the other side, which is usually a
combination of the CD19 in the
extracellular domain or anti-CD19,
CD3 zeta, 4-1BB,
or CD28, various activators in the
intracellular domain. So, everyone I
assume is familiar with that.
We created a CAR-P receptor, which again
in this case has CD19. This is not going
to be our first product, but this is a
proof of principle. CD19 on the
extracellular domain to so so will
target B cells or B cell malignancies
and an engulfment receptor and there are
many variations of engulfment receptors,
but most importantly we use we've used
LIM
domain and
engulfment receptors. We've used
many variations, but one thing that's
important is that
is that these engulfment receptors work
very well. So, this is a this was the
one of the first in vitro videos of this
CARP now
swallowing up a
lymphoid cell CD19 positive
Raji cell.
I like this video because it shows you
actually two things that are very
interesting. Number one is you see the
engulfment and the number two is that
you see that once the cell is engulfed,
what happens to it is that it actually
bursts inside the macrophage or monocyte
and releases all its contents into the
macrophage or monocyte. That's turns out
to be important because that is a
potential source of new antigens being
cross-presented now to T cells and I'll
show you data for that. So, our first
version was a
was a
very simple
CD19 on one side and the engulfment
receptor on one on the other side. We
added
a PI3 kinase co-stimulatory domain to
this based on work that had been done in
my lab and in Ron Vale's lab that showed
that if you stimulate the PI3 kinase
using a stimulatory domain,
you now get about 8 to 10-fold
enhancement in the capacity
to phagocytose the
the cells. We've since then added even
further co-stimulatory domains to this
um, to raise the phagocytic capacity of
these cells up to now about 20-fold, uh,
from just the old version one receptors.
I can't tell you what those are because
they're still being in
patent process. I'm sorry about that.
Um,
so we've started, uh, three to four
studies on this. Uh, one of them is in
CD5 positive T cell lymphomas. The logic
there is quite obvious. You can't use a
T cell to kill a T cell because it will
eat itself up. Uh, whatever antigen is
you're directing it against, if it's
present on the normal T cell. So, um,
but you can potentially use a myeloid
cell to kill a T cell. So, um,
it's uh, directed against T cells. Um,
we have one against, uh,
uh,
a for ovarian cancer. We've just opened
the study for Trop-2 positive, uh,
breast cancer, breast and ovarian
cancer. So, in fact, that study is
recruiting more actively than the
ovarian cancer. It's coming afterwards.
Um, again, I can't show you the top line
data for that because we don't have it
yet. This is the mouse, uh, study. This
was using a melanoma antigen, and this
is the the e the um, the uh, this is a
melanoma model. We we call these ATAC
cells, uh, attack cells. Um, I can tell
you later about how we manufacture them
and how how how they're made, but
basically, um, in melanoma, you see a
very clear signal for, uh, transplanted
ATAC cells. Um, these are transplanted
at 2 * 10 to the sixth. Uh, you give
them eight infusions. Um, they're quite
easy to harvest in the both in mouse and
and humans. Um, they accumulate, um,
very nicely in tumors, and they have
very strong tumor control properties, at
least in the mouse model. Um,
I won't show you the, uh, data that we
all that I have because I'm moving
through this quite quickly. Um, I won't
show you that we, um,
uh, see very good ev- evidence of
cross-presentation. So, we've used a
tumor that has ovalbumin in it, so an
OVA mouse. Um and you can
see a very uh
striking increase in OVA specific uh T
cells if you give them the uh GP75
specific monocytes. Um and that is this
illustrated very crudely here is that
the attack monocyte not only has a
direct mechanism of killing the cancer
cell, in this case using her2, but also
killing activating uh having ingested
the cancer cell, cross-presenting to the
T cell, which then activates killing of
the of the tumor cell. Some of these
studies are still ongoing, so um it's a
little bit early. So, we've uh dosed two
patients.
Um they've tolerated the doses. Uh I
can't I can't tell you the final
top-line data yet because we don't have
it yet. Um I can tell you that one of
them is now 10 months post-dosing. Um
so, um
I don't know what that means.
Um All right, any questions on on I went
through this rather quickly. I want to
finish this last piece, so any questions
on on the attack program?
Good with Good with that? Okay.
All right, um this is probably the
proudest thing that my lab has done. Um
and uh it's not a lab project. Um we
created uh the first CAR-T cells in
India. Um
uh this was a population which had never
CAR-Ts were never available. Um uh we uh
made a fully integrated uh in a licensed
CD19 CAR-T product, um a collaboration
that we had with uh
we developed this with uh
uh Spain with uh Hospital Clinic
Barcelona. Um we bought um
basically paid out of our own pockets,
bought two Prodigy systems and created,
using Indian engineering, one and now
two open systems. And by open systems I
mean they don't have anything that is
proprietary and belongs to
uh
aside from a Clinimacs unit, anything
that is involves Prodigy or its
consumables. Um why? Because we want to
bring the cost down from about 500,000
at about a million dollars all in,
including all the therapy, etc., uh down
to about 40, maybe 20,000 dollars. Um
now that sounds incredibly expensive,
but that's about the cost of a bone
marrow transplant in India right now. So
we wanted to bring it down to comparable
numbers. So this uh is the unit I I'm
I'm sorry I'm showing you photographs
like this, and this was because we built
this unit during COVID. Um
we essentially created a bubble um
uh which was a you can only you could
only test in and test out. So if you
tested negative, you would be put into
I mean this is a real system, put you
into quarantine for 5 days, test you
again, and then release you. If you left
the bubble,
uh but if you stayed within the bubble
as the GMP unit was constructed, you
could remain open and free. Um and this
is the construction of the GMP unit. I
went twice.
Uh I I I made this unit
uh with two masks, 16 hours uh on a
flight, uh two N95s. Um I survived that,
um
which was not pleasant. Then there Then
there were the vaccines, which helped my
life enormously. But this is the the the
a company called ImmunoCue,
and I think this is
probably the proudest moment of my my
life, because that bag over there
hanging in the first slide is being is
the first patient being dosed. I dosed
the first patient, um
a 10-year-old boy with uh relapse
refractory ALL, whose mortality would
have been 100%. So would be dead uh
uh by now. So, we have now CD19, CD20,
BCMA, just filed two new INDs for two
new um antigens in lymphoma and uh
myeloma. Um as I said, we finished uh
GMP facility. We were inspected by the
Indian FDA, then by the EMA, and we're
waiting for a uh FDA inspection. They're
backlogged.
Um we finished QC in uh early '22
um
and have now routinely gotten 40% plus
of CAR-T's uh given their pathogen-free.
Uh the the QC is exactly comparable to
the QC that you would see in in a CAR-T
facility in U- U-Penn, for instance. I
know Bruce is on our board. Bruce, I saw
him in the morning.
Hi, so Bruce, thank you for all your
help. Um
Uh so again, fully integrated. We have
now uh started making our own
lentivirus. So, this is the first GMP
lentivirus being produced in India. The
titers are totally
um
we are now down to about $40,000
of COGS.
Uh cost of goods will be down to about
$20,000. And please don't disclose this
data because
um
this is a private session.
Um so, the um
what this allows us to do, of course, is
not what I'm particularly proud of is to
treat and cure patients uh with relapse
refractory ALL and myeloma. It allows us
to do a completely novel clinical trial
design, which I am most excited about.
Cuz if you bring COGS down by 10-fold or
20-fold or 30-fold, um you can do a
completely novel kind of trial in which
you say, "Well,
instead of waiting for someone to fail
three lines of therapy, and then give
the CD19 or anti-myeloma CAR-T, what if
we gave them, because we can afford to,
what if we gave them the therapy at
first remission?"
Um a completely different idea and and
I'm very very interested in this trial
because I'm the the one thing I've
learned in oncology, which I think is
I learned from Bert Vogelstein the first
time I met with Bert is
Bert told me that there are three zeros
between a million and a billion.
Um
and bizarrely enough, oncologists have
forgotten that there are three zeros
between a million and a billion.
The relevance of that is if you have a
billion cells that you're treating,
it has a billion possibilities of
escaping from your therapy.
If you have a million cells you're
treating, that is reduced by a factor of
three logs. If you have a thousand cells
you're treating, that is reduced by a
factor of three logs.
We seem to have forgotten this idea,
but of course this is the basis of
adjuvant therapy or
in in in oncology in general is that if
you treat a slower disease burden, you
also get the double advantage not only
of treating less cancer and more and and
more on target cancer treatment, but you
also get the advantage that you have
less chances of relapse and failure of
treatment cuz you have log fold
differences in the capacity of the cells
to relapse. The problem is that we can't
use this because we're using typically
we're using drugs in the third line,
fourth line, sixth line, eighth line
setting and by that time you have that
carrier type that I showed you in the
AML patient. Every single chromosome is
gone awack, mutations galore, etc. etc.
And of course you increase the capacity
of the tumor to escape. Um
by moving cogs down, you have really the
capacity now to do what is quite I think
a revolutionary kind of study, which is
a a new trial design. So, I'm not going
to give you all the data because these
are two abstracts present We have six
abstracts at ASH, uh the American
Society of Hematology meeting. This is
This trial is called Imagine. Um 10
patients treated so far of planned 24.
Median prior lines of therapy is two
lines. In the US, it would have been
four or five or six.
Um
uh 83% uh
for ALL including some cures at day 90.
Um and uh for uh non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
CD19 positive uh 77% with an overall
response rate of
Um
And this is one example of a NHL
patient. Um so you can see the pre and
post. So diffuse um this is a PET scan,
obviously. Diffuse adenopathy There's
these two patients. Uh diffuse
adenopathy uh uh which is PET positive
all along the
uh
legs. Um
very bright lymph nodes also under the
armpits. And this is a patient Both
patients uh had a complete uh response
uh CR. And this continues into day 90.
Um The ALL patients, the longest has
gone out to I think day 144.
So um
presumably hopefully uh cured. Um And
again,
uh we do use genomics still. Um that is
the uh rise. You can detect uh detect
the rise of the T cells using qPCR in
their blood.
Um it rises to a peak of several
thousand counts. And you get a B cell
aplasia that accompanies this, which is
a very good prognostic sign because the
tumor cells are not that See, the it's
sorry, the CD19 CAR-T cells are not just
killing cancer cells, but they're also
killing B cells.
Um
So um I talked about this already. Um I
have one last uh uh block to talk about.
I think I have six more minutes.
Um any questions about Immuneel
Therapeutics? Um The ASH posters will be
out in
seven or eight days. So you can follow
that as we go along. Um
I
I personally have never been
more proud uh
than this.
Um,
the last study that we, um, I want to
talk about is again,
um,
uh, study we published, uh, with Lou
Cantley. Uh, it's published in Nature
gosh, about 3 years ago. Um,
and again has this same theme, which we
in which we use uh, we stand on the
shoulders of giants us- using genomics
and try to make something new out of,
uh, these genetic studies. Um, when this
has to do with PI3K kinase, of course,
uh, Lou's work, uh, everyone knows here.
Um, this was back back when he was in
New York in my city. Unfortunately,
he's come back here, but fortunately for
you, I suppose.
Um, anyway, um, this goes back to
studies that were, uh, done in the, uh,
mid-2000s, um,
in PI3K kinase mutated, uh, breast
cancer. And the very surprising and
disappointing data there was that even
though this is a very frequent mutation
in breast, endometrial, and other
cancers, um, very specific PI3K kinase
alpha and delta, um, inhibitors failed
to show, uh, clinical responsiveness.
And we really scratched our heads about
this. I was in one of the trials, the
AML and the MDS trial for this. We got
very poor, um, these are the
Kaplan-Meier curves from the New England
Journal of Medicine study, and, uh, this
is a comment by Ian Crock,
um,
uh, saying that it it's just this it's a
bizarre surprise. And this was the kind
of sobering data that I talked about. We
have mutations, you have the genome, you
have a sequence, you have a drug, and it
still doesn't work. And we scratched our
heads and scratched our heads and really
were extraordinarily disappointed about,
uh, about the study, um, as of course
were patients.
But then I had, uh, lunch with Lou, and
Lou's very hard to have lunch with
because he doesn't eat anything. Um,
but, uh, but I had lunch with Lou, and,
um, we began to I I said to him very
casually at lunch. I said, "You know
what was bizarre about the study as a
clinician is that many of the patients
who were pre-diabetic became frankly
diabetic. So, their insulin spike, their
glucose spike, we had to send them to
the endocrinologists.
Um the endocrinologists put them on
insulin
um and um you know, manage them on
insulin, but they were all If they were
pre-diabetic, they became diabetic. If
they were non-diabetic, they began began
to have glucose intolerance.
And this um was a back of the napkin uh
discussion
um which I love having. Um but this
basically shows that same data in the
mouse. Um so, if you give uh PI3 kinase
inhibitors in the mouse, you see the
similar situation. You see this spike in
glucose. Um so, essentially a week or
two after we had this discussion, we
went back to the laboratory, dosed mice
with in this case, I think it was
copanlisib, uh which is an alpha
uh and uh
alpha and delta specific inhibitor. Um
and you can see that both the insulin
rises, insulin on the on the right side
shown by uh C-peptide, um BKM120 is a uh
PI3 kinase inhibitor, BYL719 is one, um
and of course is a vehicle control. So,
um we can reproduce this diabetic
phenotype in this in the animal.
And then we argued or we hypothesized
that what was happening is that
the inhibition of PI3 kinase
we and again, this shows you the blind
spots that we have as as tumor
biologists. We think of the tumor as if
it's sitting in space. But of course,
it's not sitting in space. It's sitting
inside an animal. It's sitting inside a
human.
And so, what happens inside a human is
that yes, the PI3 kinase is inhibiting
the uh the inhibitor, the drug is
inhibiting the uh uh PI3 kinase in the
tumor, but it must also have
physiological effects because there's a
whole animal. It's not just sitting in
space. And in fact, the physiological
effect is now the release of
the the body, this is the hypothesis,
the body thinks that it's going through
starvation because you've inhibited the
central detector of of nutrients. And
the response of the body is essentially
your liver starts releasing glucose.
That glucose then prompts the pancreas
to release insulin. And now the
hypothesis was that that insulin
reactivates
um the very genes or the very downstream
pathways that the PI3K inhibitor was
supposed to inhibit. I liken this to
the woodcutter the famous fable of the
woodcutter who sits on the tree and
chops off the limb that he or she is is
sitting on.
Um and in fact, that turned out to be
true. The most The simplest way to see
this is the following. This is a tumor
imaged by PET
um either given vehicle or a PI3K
inhibitor BKM120. And you would imagine
since PET detects the glucose flux into
the tumor, you'd imagine that in fact if
the tumor was dying, you'd imagine the
glucose flux would go down. In fact,
just the opposite happens and we've done
this in humans now as well. So in fact,
just the opposite happens. In fact, the
glucose flux goes up.
Um and what really happens within the
tumor is a won't go through a lot of the
details, but
in in in summary, what happens is what I
just told you is that you get a
uh uh
glucose release into the pancreas.
Pancreas then releases insulin. The
insulin now we know binds
to the insulin-like growth factor
receptor and that receptor reactivates
multiple genes that are resistance
mechanisms to PI3K. We've shown this now
in multiple models of cancer, I think 12
models of cancer. And what's interesting
is that it's mutation agnostic. It's
true for PI3K mutated tumors, but it's
also true for PI3K in its non-mutated
tumors, including pancreatic cancers in
the mouse.
I think I have the mouse data here.
This is just that same idea
repeated, which is to say that the
inhibitor
certainly inhibits PI3K alpha in the
tumor cells. This is in the case of AML.
Uh
and thereby inhibits AKT,
S6, and mTOR in the tumor. But
the inhibitor also inhibits in the
pancreas and the liver
PI3K, thereby releasing insulin acting
through the insulin receptor, and
reactivating the downstream
genes involved in tumor proliferation,
resistance, and growth. Um
So
Um this is the There are two strategies
by which you can lower insulin in vivo.
You can use drugs
or you can use a ketogenic diet. I
remember this ketogenic diet, it's an
insulin-suppressive diet. There are
1,000 variations of ketogenic diets.
The sole role here is to suppress
insulin. It's not to make ketones.
Ketones are only there so that you can
live.
The sole goal here is to reduce insulin.
And
we we've done it done variations on this
theme. We can use SGLT inhibitors or the
ketogenic diet. It turns out that
actually the diet plus drug combination
is the best. This is the lowering of
insulin in
in with the ketogenic diet alone.
And you can see that if you do this
combination therapy,
you can see that the insulin receptors
is not activated, and there's a lot of
biochemistry in the paper that shows
that these downstream
things from the insulin receptor,
including AKT, S6, and mTOR are no
longer activated. Um
Um this is the mouse data. This is AML.
Uh, it's true for
uh, allografts of pancreatic cancer.
It's true for endometrial cancer. Uh,
these are PDX models. I think we've
taken I think about 12 um, such
independent models um, and shown that
you get very profound reductions in uh,
and in very profound uh, effects on the
tumor if you combine an insulin lowering
strategy with the uh, PI3K kinase alpha
inhibitors. Um, I'll uh,
reach my conclusions with the amount of
time. So, um, I guess um,
the there are vast opportunities to
combine cell therapies with genomics and
genetics.
Uh, the uh, the rumors that uh,
that we're not using genomics is is is
is not true although as I said we're
using them in in completely new ways um,
that I think are fascinating to me as a
physiologist uh, um, and as a cell
biologist. Uh, obviously I talked a
little bit about combining metabolic
therapies with genomics.
Um,
the possibility of combining uh,
cancers. Um, I didn't talk about
degenerative disease. Um, and I'll leave
you the one question that I get off
asked often is how do I write books? Um,
and also uh, manage to do research. I
certainly don't do the research um, at
the level of most people in this
audience. So,
um, but I do like to make medicines. Uh,
I do like to make uh, do translational
research. Um,
and the way I do it is is by by creating
uh, or delegating responsibilities to
people who are extraordinary. And um,
these people who've taken these projects
forward in uh, these laboratories in
India sitting through COVID in a bubble
uh, flying across the country when it
was extraordinary risky nursing the
first CAR-T patients uh, whe- when no
one knew how to dose T cells are just
really extraordinary people. Um,
uh, giving advice to us for basically
for nothing. Bruce, Carl, and folks, you
know,
and I always remember that because Gary
Gilliland, who was one of my mentors,
end with this, said a thousand B pluses
do not make an A plus.
If you have A plus people, if you have
people you can give the responsibility
to,
you can recruit 5,000 people and you'll
never get the same result. You have one
person, you have one nurse
who knows how to detect an early
cytokine release syndrome.
That is the person who will save the
life of of a 10-year-old boy getting
their first CAR-T therapy.
And I think that in some ways is the is
my theme in life and perhaps is the
message of this conference, which is if
you recruit A plus people, you don't
need to recruit a thousand
anyone else. You just need one
to be able to do that.
Thank you very much. I'm happy to answer
any questions.
Do you sit here?
Wonderful. Thank you, Sid, so much for
this fantastic presentation. Let me sit
here maybe. So, now we are going to be
opening for Q&A.
Do I need to I'm miked already, so
wondering Okay, I think we have one
question here. I can barely see with the
light.
One over there as well. So, let's just
start
Let's start here. Yeah. Okay, thank you.
Siddhartha, thank you. That was
absolutely wonderful. I wanted to ask
you a question about
India philosophically and more broadly.
Uh
you are rightly proud of what you've
done there.
But if the theme of this conference is
about trying to take cutting-edge
science and medicine to help people,
let's just summarize it in that context,
through accelerating what technology can
do,
I think it's important that we all
realize that there's 8 billion people on
the planet today, only 300 million of
them are in this country.
And your work in India,
as you said, is the first example of
someone
building cell therapy to treat the 1.3
billion people who live in India, who
represent
a population that is much closer to the
8 billion people on the planet than than
the 300 million here. Conventional
wisdom in this country is that
innovation can only come from the great
US.
Interesting that you're an
Indian-American. Um
So, there's clearly Indians who can
innovate.
Um just thoughts on one,
is there an opportunity to push much
more innovation in countries like India
at the cutting edge? Two, what do we,
as an industry that's dedicated to
helping humans,
do to shift the dynamic where,
obviously, American-priced
therapy is not just in in the world of
cell therapy, but more broadly, are
completely unaffordable to the vast
majority of people on the planet. Um
Yeah, so very important questions. Um
first of all, that conventional wisdom
is all nonsense. Um
uh
um
uh I can speak um
as a former Indian citizen, we're
sending rockets to the moon just as much
as you are. Um
uh not that that's a proof of anything,
but
proves that technology can be can be
moved around. But more importantly, as I
pointed out to you, um
I have become a believer in what I call
reverse tech transfer.
So, for the last 100 odd years, uh it's
not true
100 years ago. Uh 100
100 years before the la- the last 100
years, technology moved from
uh
places like India
north uh to the global north. Um and
then, of course, in the post-colonial
and colonial context, that technology
started moving the other way around,
coming to places like India. Um and
India's only one example. China's of
course another very, very large example
of this.
Um,
I'm absolutely confident that during my
lifetime we will see reverse tech
transfer.
Um, we're already going to see it uh in
the next I would say 9 to 10 months. We
will launch our first study of uh
BCMA in
in the after first remission. Um, that
study's already been approved. This is
for multiple myeloma again
uh to talk about a completely new
shifted paradigm. We have two new INDs
that we're filing for new proprietary
products
developed entirely in collaboration with
Spain and with the US, but they're
Indian products
um uh for lymphoma and uh myeloma.
Um, and then we'll do another study in
first remission leukemia ALL uh which
will also be in first remission. We are
transferring we're likely to transfer
war's capacity
uh
not after again three lines or four
lines of chemotherapy, but upon first
remission. Um, all of these are going to
be completely pivotal trials that will
change the landscape I think of the
treatment of at least blood tumors,
blood cancers. Um,
uh we will eventually move on to
non-blood cancers. Ovarian cancer is on
our line of sight. Um, and so
um so that's the answer to the first
question. The second question is also
important. You know, how do we afford
all of this?
Um, certainly can't afford a million
dollars.
Uh we can't even afford half of a
million dollars. Um, so the the COGS has
to be brought down by 10-fold if not 30
to 40-fold. Um,
is that doable? Yes, because we're not
making gold.
Uh we're not mining.
Um, we're taking T cells from the body,
making viruses that
um
you know, can deliver receptors to those
T cells or myeloid cells
um and then in in injecting back in them
injecting them back into the human body.
These are engineering problems and
you've seen the the famous curves
in which in
in chip technology for instance or in
other
other forms of technologies, the prices
have gone down 10-fold, 20-fold,
40-fold, 80-fold, 100-fold. Data
management is another example. So, I
think it's very very doable. It just has
to you just have to concentrate on the
engineering
and and there are plenty of very good
engineers around both biological and
outside the world of outside the world
of mechanical engineering.
So, I'm pretty optimistic about it.
I think Sadiq had a question.
Sadiq? Yeah, Sadiq, really wonderful
talk and the board data obviously
personal highlight to see that patient
data actually being translated. So,
related to India, you know, you
mentioned you use the Miltenyi Prodigy
system and then you made some
modifications to make it an open system.
I was wondering if you could elaborate
on you know, the hardware modifications
that you needed to implement in India
and and the QC release testing. That
seems to be the biggest challenge with
this decentralized type of testing
model.
How were you able to overcome some of
those issues? Did you have to invent new
methods, repurpose existing
technologies? Yes, so some of it is
proprietary so I I'm not I can't totally
give you
a full
but but
we made them so I made them in
collaboration with the Indian engineers
so that now we are basically down to
just having the CliniMACS.
So, everything is out of the Prodigy.
So, everything we opened up the Prodigy,
took out all the bottles and took out
all the pipe pipes etc. etc.
Our goal is to do the first study with
the open system. It's not been in study
yet, but what we're finding in both
animal POC models and in um
in by in vitro flow cytometry, etc.,
that the QC has not been changed at all.
So, we're still getting the same level
of transduction, the same QC criteria,
the same number of the same MOI is being
used for the lentivirus.
Um
so, um
I think that it's possible to do it.
Again, I can't not at total liberty to
discuss how we changed all the piping,
um but the open system works really
well. Um uh and the the point is now to
potentially even remove the the
CliniMACS completely, um bringing down
the COGS down to the levels that we
talked about $20 to $30,000.
And actually, related with the same, how
are you planning or thinking on
expanding on capabilities and throughput
to make sure that you can reach to all
the patient population? It's a big
big challenge. Um
we're doing a couple of things. Um
one of them is there's a lot of training
involved. Um so, we're training about
200 uh the center is now training about
200 nurses
uh to take care of these patients. And
we are just uh so, the Indian FDA, the
DCGI,
uh the Drug Controller General of of
India asked us to do a multi-center
study uh to show that, you know, it's
not just, you know, you just didn't make
up this
really fancy uh center in in Bangalore
uh where which is a very which is a tech
hub.
Um
Bangalore is a very strange city. You
pass through
um you know, to get from the uh from get
from Delhi to Bangalore is a 3-hour
flight and to get from Bangalore to
Electronic City, which is where India's
Silicon Valley is, is a 3-hour drive.
Um
and you pass through roads that have
been half clogged by garbage. And then
you go into a GMP facility, which where
there is uh you know, not one single you
know, you're we're testing constantly to
make sure there's not one single
pathogen around. It's just a kind of mad
experience.
Anyway, but
scalability is a big question. We're
training. So there's human labor.
And the second way that we're doing this
is that I said, we are now beginning to
manufacture open systems so that we can
handle tens of patients per center
per month up to about 50s of patients
per center per month.
And it's all about engineering
because it has to do with
again by opening up the system, you can
supply all of these. There's no supply
chain issue. You don't have to buy eight
prodigies.
We're actually in collaboration thinking
of a collaboration with an Israeli
company
which will which will which has also
done a lot of this work.
And so we hope to be able to treat 50s
of patients, maybe hundreds of patients
per center per month. And the demand is
infinite by the way
for if you take lymphoma, leukemia, ALL,
and myeloma,
um
it is easily potentially possible in the
entire South Asia region to treat tens
to 50s of patients per month.
Very exciting. I think we have time
perhaps for one last question.
I'll get it later. I can't see you.
Okay. Sid, very nice presentation.
I think the five examples you talked
about, I want to think about how do you
look at a problem differently? You talk
about innovation. You give the example
of PI3K inhibitors. For people in the
audience, every pharma company used to
have like PI3K inhibitors. They were all
doing exactly the same thing
10, 20 years, hundreds of millions of
dollars, maybe billion. Nothing came up.
So as we are sitting here and looking at
genome secure, what do you think how do
you we should look at the problem and
not follow the same path?
Well, I think you know, as I said, I
mean
you know
the
the important thing that I wanted to
emphasize through this talk is that
the the genome is not physiology.
There's a layer of physiology that's
missing. If If you want to translate
genomic insights into cancer therapies
or to human therapies, you need to focus
or understand the physiology of cancer
inside you.
And there's a big missing link there.
I think that's the missing link that
there's a there's a line in my book
which is that
sequencing is sequencing is seduction.
It's very seductive technology because
you you know, you open up a tumor and
you have lots of information data about
which genes are mutated, what genes are
translocated, etc. etc.
It's very seductive information. The
problem is that that is not physiology.
Physiology requires a different kind of
thinking. It requires thinking in a
holistic manner
in a way that understands what the tumor
is if you're talking about cancer and
other diseases as well, but it requires
a kind of different kind of thinking.
And I think that that is a incredibly
important missing piece in in our
ecosystem around therapies today. We
think about, you know, a kind of
a linear way
of going from genomics and genetics to
therapies.
The thinking is often non-linear because
we discount features in the animal in
humans
and in cancers that that are that might
be resistance mechanisms that might be
countervailing mechanisms homeostasis
the basics of life we discount and
therefore are unable to discover why
things are the way they are
just to finish up just having this
conversation with Phil you know we were
having this conversation in in in New
York
um
we still don't understand as I as I
started off in the beginning of the talk
we still don't understand why certain
mutations for instance RNA splicing
mutations um are so commonly present in
leukemias and in some other cancers
breast cancer being one of them we still
don't know
what does RNA splicing of all things
have to do a very generalized process
have to do with with cancer um and Phil
pointed out and this was another talk he
pointed out maybe we're just using the
wrong conditions to grow the cells or to
assess
why they're causing cancer maybe we need
to use different kinds of conditions it
could be as simple as that the bone
marrow is not a lump of tissue in in in
your spleen it's not a lump of tissue on
your skin they're different environments
if you don't
if you don't reproduce those
environments if you don't reproduce the
the the glucose content the oxygen
content the insulin content which is all
physiology by the way you will never
know you will never discover or figure
out why certain mutations or certain
genomic therapies cause cancer and
secondly how to potentially find
therapies against them so this is a
really a plug to think about
the post genomic world
using genomics but think about post
genomic world in a in in a physiological
manner
Well thank you so much Sid fantastic
thank you for being here today thank you
Thanks a lot Thanks thank you